⚡What’s happening: Base ranked as the top blockchains by bridged net flows at $3.7 billion over the past year, according to Artemis data. 

⚡Why it matters: Base ranked at the top of this category with Optimism’s OP Mainnet taking the second highest slot at $2.1 billion, over the past 12-months, the data showed. This means the two together bridged over $5.8 billion in net flows.

The dominance of these two chains by net flows highlights the broader Superchain ecosystem’s attractive scalability, which continues to draw developers and liquidity across different web3 projects. 

The two networks, built on the OP Stack, also ranked above other high traffic networks such as Solana at $2.1 billion and Arbitrum at $1.5 billion, the data showed. 

For Base specifically, its developer kit has contributed to its growth, with some of the largest AI projects built on the network. Virtuals, a protocol for developing decentralized AI agent applications built on Base has incubated popular AI crypto projects like AIXBT. The autonomous X bot has developed mass exposure as it leads Cookie DAO’s AI agents index mindshare at 15.75%. AIXBT has also amassed a market cap of over $500 million. 

Base’s AI market cap is at $7.2 billion, Cookie DAO’s data shows. Similarly, Virtuals’ token is the sixth largest AI token by market cap and it has been a major contributor to the Base ecosystem with over $2.1 billion bridged to the network from its platform.

OP mainnet also had networks with increased activity onchain such as Uniswap, Chainlink, Velodrome and Circle. The Superchain DEX, Velodrome, saw growth in TVL going from $7.4 billion to $22.6 billion and contributing to the net flows of the OP mainnet ecosystem.

Base and OP mainnet’s successes in the past year highlights the many new developments happening with projects built with the OP Stack, especially in AI.

⚡What it means for the broader ecosystem: The Superchain ecosystem’s success in 2024 reflects the growing adoption of OP Stack’s technology and ability to support decentralized applications with many users and large liquidity. 

The Superchain ecosystem has 319 apps live and contributes to nearly 50% of all layer-2 transactions on Ethereum. As it continues to grow and moves towards interoperability, the chains and projects within the ecosystem will also have opportunities to increase users and liquidity across many networks with the unifying layer. 

The rising interest in AI protocols across the crypto ecosystem has been one of the leading narratives in web3. Networks built on the OP Stack like Base have produced some of the most popular applications thus far. If the trends continue, the Superchain could be the home to some of the most popular applications in crypto providing developers with an intuitive and efficient platform to build and scale apps across Ethereum.
