⚡What’s happening: The broader Ethereum ecosystem and L2 landscape is due for an upgrade. These chains need better interoperability, throughput and more. And the Superchain thinks it has the solution, OP Labs Head of Product Sam McIngvale shared during Optimism's quarterly webinar with Token Relations. “[The] Superchain’s vision is to enable Ethereum via horizontal scalability,” he added. 

⚡Why it matters: Many L2 chains currently operate in silos, forcing devs and users to choose a chain based on trade offs like user base, fees, and liquidity. The Superchain seeks to solve this problem in 2025 with its unified ecosystem and “seamless” cross-chain interactions through its native OP Stack Interoperability, McIngvale said during the webinar. 

Superchain’s native Interop is a key advantage for developers because the core code for blockchain messaging and communication across different chains is integrated or “lives inside” the OP Stack, McIngvale explained. When launched, this native Interoperability will improve users' onchain experience by lowering transaction cost, increasing speed and providing access to many different chains across the Superchain. Devs building protocols using the OP Stack technology will benefit from this unified ecosystem, combining the benefits of many different protocols and chains within the Superchain.

In 2024, Superchain had major advancements as some chains transitioned to "Stage 1." This phase was coined by Ethereum Co-founder Vitalik Buterin and describes when a blockchain operates with "limited training wheels" in place and is migrating toward full decentralization. 

OP mainnet has already achieved Stage 1 decentralization with the implementation of permissionless fault proofs for enhanced security. Networks such as Base, Ink, Unichain, World, and other chains within the Superchain are actively working toward adopting this technology and becoming more decentralized. 

Secondly, the implementation of SuperchainERC20 is set to enhance its ecosystem further by providing dApps with a uniform way to manage tokens across multiple chains. This means tokens can move easily across the Superchain, eliminating the need for coin wrappers and complex bridging solutions. This new token standard simplifies cross-chain transactions for both developers and users. 

Furthermore, the discussion also highlighted the impact of the upcoming Ethereum Pectra upgrade, which aims to reduce costs and improve scalability across Ethereum L2s. This upgrade will allow for OP Stack chains to have better speed and efficiency through account abstraction and improved data availability, McIngvale said.  Additionally, this upgrade introduces the necessity for blob limits to increase in order for the majority of L2s to scale further. 

The impact blobs have on scaling L2s can be profound, as raising the blob limit can potentially increase throughput by two times, improving scalability and reducing congestion, McIngvale said.

As more developments push the boundaries of what’s possible within the Superchain, more activations and opportunities can come onchain. 

⚡What it means for the broader ecosystem: The primary goal for the Superchain is to improve L2s interoperability and scaling, while aligning with Ethereum, McIngvale explained. 

Within the next few years, OP Labs wants to reach “full horizontal scalability,” so developers no longer need to choose a single chain for liquidity and users, he noted. By lowering transaction costs, speeding up block times, and unifying cross-chain operations, the Superchain plans to position itself to become a key ecosystem for interoperability across DeFi, AI, NFTs, gaming, and beyond.